She did it!Pietermaritzburg&rsquo;s Noma Khumalo was chosen by South Africa as the winner of Idols SA season 12, at the finale at Carnival City in Johannesburg on Sunday night.The 22-year old substitute teacher beat fellow KZN contestant, Thami Shobede, to win the prestigious music title &mdash; breaking the cycle of male-dominated wins and being the first female winner since season five in 2009. It was a tight race, and even though Shobede&rsquo;s single Sthandwa reached number one on iTunes this week while Khumalo&rsquo;s Want It To Feel Like It Did With You was at number 16, she was announced the ultimate Idol who walks away with prizes valued at more than R1,2 million.A record vote saw over 83 million votes cast throughout season 12, and over 14 million votes cast over the past week.Judges Somizi Mhlongo and Randall Abrahams were confident that Khumalo was going to win.Members of Eagle Christian Centre in Willowton and the community turned out at the church last night to watch Idols SA in support of Khumalo, who attends the church.They were nervous and anxious in the build-up to the winner&rsquo;s name being announced &mdash; praying, holding hands and trying to contain their nerves. But their sheer joy was unleashed the moment presenter Proverb announced that Khumalo had grabbed the winning title.&ldquo;Eagle Christian Centre&rsquo;s Noma has done it again! When Vincent Bones won in 2014, we thought it was one in a million, but Noma has done it again and we are so proud of her and excited to be celebrating this with her,&rdquo; said Pastor Julian Naicker.&ldquo;She gave an incredible performance and we&rsquo;re overwhelmed by her,&rdquo; said Pastor Lallie Naicker.Khumalo&rsquo;s parents, who were in Johannesburg with her, could not be reached for comment last night amidst the jubilation of their daughter&rsquo;s success. One of Khumalo&rsquo;s music students, Kellin Cattigan, said: &ldquo;She deserves this! I&rsquo;m so proud of her because she achieved so much, and her faith in God will still determine her future positively.&rdquo;Khumalo&rsquo;s appreciation of her fans was warmly expressed on Facebook: &ldquo;No tears, no words or letters can describe how I feel inside. To come this far has not only been my journey alone but a journey I have took with each and every one of you. I am here today just to say thank you. Thank you for not giving up on me, and the endless love and support,&rdquo; she said in her last post before voting closed last week.&ldquo;The competition has been really stiff so it&rsquo;s a triumph that hasn&rsquo;t come easy for them,&rdquo; the official Idols SA website commented. This season&rsquo;s Top 10 reunited on stage, performing This Is What You Came For by Calvin Harris feat Rihanna, and Beyonce&rsquo;s Flawless , as well as this year&rsquo;s &ldquo;Wooden Mic&rdquo; winner Mbishop Shezi performing an operatic duet with Somizi that had the crowd on their feet. On Sunday night, Abrahams also thanked fellow judge Gareth Cliff, who recently resigned, for all his contributions to the show.