A Durban court has handed down six life terms to a man who massacred an Inanda family &mdash; a sentencing that comes almost four years after the murders.Tsepang Mokhali, who is now 22 years old, will likely spend the rest of his life in jail after the Durban high court on Tuesday sentenced him to 12 years plus six life terms for armed robbery and murder respectively.Mokhali was found guilty of the execution-style murders of Nobuhle Marcellinah Leneha (38) and her five children, aged between two and 14 years, on December 29, 2012. The murders were carried out at Leneha&rsquo;s uMzinyathi home near Inanda.Described by officers as one of the most gruesome scenes they have ever attended, the bodies of the children had been stacked in the bathroom while their mother was found in the passage with her then 14-month-old baby strapped to her lifeless body.Lenaha was shot execution-style through the head at close range several times, while her children started screaming and locked themselves in the bathroom. They were all stabbed and left bleeding one on top of another with multiple stab wounds all over their heads, chests, neck and other parts of their bodies.Their bodies were discovered four days later when their father, who was away at the time, sent a family member to check on them.The toddler was found unhurt but dehydrated and hungry, covered in his mother&rsquo;s blood after being strapped to her by her apron. Mokhali is Lenaha&rsquo;s nephew and it is believed he murdered her and her children over money.Speaking to The Witness&nbsp;on Wednesday Leneha&rsquo;s husband and father to the murdered children, Leonard Bobore, said the family are satisfied with the sentence, but he was also frustrated at police for not telling him that the sentencing was due to be handed down. &ldquo;I wanted to see him [Mokhali] being sentenced and taken to jail after what he did. &ldquo;The family wanted to be there. The pain will never go away and I will live with it for the rest of my life,&rdquo; Bobore said.He said his son Mpho, who is the only survivor of the massacre, will be turning six next year and will be starting school soon.&ldquo;He is doing well and we are taking extra care of him,&rdquo; Bobore said.After the sentencing, a Pietermaritzburg security company director told The Witness how he and his team tracked and arrested Mokhali, and described his relief now that &ldquo;justice has taken its course&rdquo;.Magma Security director Shaheen Suleiman said they were approached for assistance about one and a half years after the murders, because Mokhali immediately fled the country and was still on the run.&ldquo;We started to work with our informers and revisited the crime scene where we interviewed neighbours and family. The neighbours said they saw Mokhali pack his bags and leave urgently. That made him our number one suspect,&rdquo; Suleiman said.&ldquo;Mokhali escaped to Lesotho and was on the run from the police, but we received information that he was returning to Matatiele. This was back in January, 2014&rdquo;.Suleiman said he and his team spent a week in the mountain villages in Matatiele, staking out the area for Mokhali until he was eventually spotted.&ldquo;It makes all of us happy that justice has played its part. Those young, innocent kids were hacked to death. It is good to know all the hard work by police and my team members paid off,&rdquo; Suleiman said.