A former Maritzburg College pupil, who recently wrote a blog about road safety, was killed in a motorbike accident in Gauteng on Friday last week.Dumisani Nqobile Ndaba (28) from Imbali unit 13 was involved in a motorbike accident near Silverton in Pretoria. His sister Nonjabulo Ndaba told The Witness on Monday, in an emotional interview, that they think Dumisani lost control of his motorbike as no one else was involved in the accident.Nonjabulo said her brother had sustained severe injuries to the head and internal bleeding and was taken to taken to Die Wilgers Hospital, where he died the following day after his family had travelled from KZN to see him.Just a few days before his accident, Ndaba had posted a picture of himself on Facebook sitting on his motorbike wearing a Maritzburg College rugby jersey with the caption &ldquo;Although I&rsquo;m not wearing a seat-belt, here are some reasons why you should.&rdquo;He included a link to his blog where he wrote a piece on the importance of seat-belts and road safety.His distraught sister said the family were &ldquo;barely coping&rdquo;. &ldquo;It is very hard to accept that he is gone for good,&rdquo; said the sobbing Nonjabulo. She said her brother was very well educated and was passionate about learning and encouraged others to study further. &ldquo;I am currently doing my master&rsquo;s degree because Dumi pushed me to do it. &ldquo;He loved learning and always praised our parents for giving us quality education,&rdquo; she said.Ndaba was currently living in Pretoria working as a researcher at the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). He had plans to permanently return to Pieter&shy;maritzburg in 2017.&ldquo;Dumi was supposed to come back home for Christmas on December 23. We also had family holiday reservations in Richards Bay for the 27th.&ldquo;I feel like a part of me has been ripped off. Dumi and I were extremely close,&rdquo; she said.Nonjabulo added that her brother gave good advice, and recalled one of the most memorable pieces of advice he had given her. &ldquo;He once told me to loosen up and stop talking English in taxis because it would land me in trouble,&rdquo; she laughed through her sobs.She said the Ndaba family and extended family are grateful for all the messages of support from Dumisani&rsquo;s friends and colleagues and on social media where people have been praising her brother for all his good deeds and the impact he had on people&rsquo;s lives.&ldquo;We will miss him, especially my mother. They were best friends and Dumi was definitely her best child,&rdquo; chuckled Nonjabulo.Ndaba is survived by his parents, Siphiwe and Nomusa, and younger sister Nonjabulo.