The Stellenbosch student who was found murdered in her mother&rsquo;s Cape Town flat two weeks ago, was the daughter of well-known Pietermaritzburg surgeon and cyclist Dr Adrian Pearce.Robyn Pearce (20) was found stabbed in her stomach in the locked fourth floor Sea Point apartment on December 2.Her father was a prominent cardiologist at St Anne&rsquo;s Hospital when he was hit by a vehicle and killed while cycling on the R623 Mandeston Road near Thornville in 2011.He was riding with a team from the Cycle Lab club when the accident happened.Now his wife, Bernie, and youngest daughter, Jamie, are awaiting the court proceedings of Wasief Buxbey (27) who admitted to killing the BA (Humanities) student.It is believed Buxbey was a construction worker who was working at the building Pearce lived in.News24 reported that when Pearce&rsquo;s body was found by a friend, the apartment was locked and no windows were believed to have been broken.Several items were removed from the flat, including the knife used to kill Pearce, which was later found in Buxbey&rsquo;s possession.Buxbey has admitted to killing Pearce and opted to represent himself during court proceedings at the Cape Town Magistrate&rsquo;s Court.State prosecutor Rui Carvalho asked that the case be postponed until the state had received outstanding witness reports, crime scene photographs and post-mortem results.The case was postponed to March 28, 2017 and Buxbey will stay in custody until then.When called on Wednesday, Bernie Pearce said the family were not ready to release any statements.Robyn Pearce was a former pupil at The Wykeham Collegiate in Pietermaritzburg&shy;. She was 15 years old when her father was killed.Pearce was described as &ldquo;kind-hearted&rdquo; and &ldquo;sweet and quiet&rdquo;.&ldquo;Thoughts and prayers go out to the Pearce family! Your daughter was a beautiful and lovely person! May her soul Rest In Peace and that the Lord may cover you with the peace which passes all understanding! Politics tut will not be as productive! Robyn Pearce you will be a sweet memory,&rdquo; wrote Bianca Hull on Facebook.Suzan Plaatjies wrote: &ldquo;May her sweet soul rest in peace. Sincerest condolences to the family. May God comfort her family and all those affected by her passing.&rdquo;Jidy Iyaloo wrote: &ldquo;Our deepest [and] heartfelt condolences to Bernadette Poisson-Pearce and Jamie on the loss of your darling Robyn. Our prayers are for God to continue to give you peace and strength during this tragic, sad [and] difficult time.&ldquo;Robyn is now an angel with her dad Adrian.&rdquo;Sarah Thatcher wrote: &ldquo;I am so lucky to have shared 10 beautiful years with you even though those 10 will never be enough. I wish I could spend just one more second talking about boys, getting loud to Frank Ocean, dancing in our 2 square-metre kitchen, getting low whilst cooking chicken drumsticks. You were a LIFE in a nutshell and everyone who knew you could say the same.&ldquo;I will thank God everyday for giving me a lifetime of memories with you and the best friendship I could ever have wished for.&ldquo;Now go on and spread your wings, sing loud, drink champagne and go and dance with your dad up there. I will love you forever and ever my best friend and cannot wait until we meet again."