A private security guard was shot while responding to an armed robbery at a city car parts dealership last week. This was the second break-in at Euro Parts in Greyling Street in two days &mdash; with the notorious five-minute gang believed to be behind both incidents.The initial break-in took place in the early hours of Thursday morning. A gang of men, believed to have been driving a silver VW Polo hatchback, made off with two cash registers and the security system hard-drive. In the process, the gang disabled the security cameras and stole an undisclosed amount of money from the cash registers. One of the Euro Parts managers, who asked not to be named, said the &ldquo;quick motions&rdquo; of the gang made him believe it was the work of the five-minute gang.&ldquo;The gang were in and out of the workshop in less than five minutes. They fled even before the armed response guys could arrive,&rdquo; he said. The manager said since they were unable to repair all the damage on Thursday, they hired a private security guard to stand watch through the night.But the following day, the same gang allegedly returned to the workshop for a second round of looting after they were disturbed on Thursday by B-Secure guards who responded to the activated alarm.&ldquo;The guys returned on Friday morning at around 4 am and held the guard at gunpoint. They made him lie on the ground and broke the door down,&rdquo; said the workshop manager. The gang stole another cash register and a host of electrical appliances on Friday before armed response guards arrived. B-Secure security guard Craig Govender said they saw three men stationed outside the workshop as &ldquo;watchers&rdquo;. &ldquo;Before we could do anything, they fired multiple shots at us. We immediately fired shots back at them before they fled in the silver Polo.&rdquo;In their haste, the robbers dropped a flat-screen TV at the entrance of the workshop.Govender said his colleague, Mekyle Kruger, was shot in his hand and was rushed to hospital where he spent three days recuperating. &ldquo;It was a terrifying and unexpected experience. When we went there we were not expecting so many gun-shots. I just heard multiple bang sounds. What made this worse was that we could not see exactly where the shots were coming from,&rdquo; said Govender. The store manager said the men &ldquo;seemed to be professionals&rdquo;.uMgungundlovu South Cluster police spokesperson Sergeant Mthokozisi Ngobese said they were not taking the matter &ldquo;lightly&rdquo;. &ldquo;The police are doing everything possible to catch this gang,&rdquo; Ngobese said.