Teachers' Day is celebrated throughout the world with the aim of commemorating the unsung heroes and heroines who help nurture and educate young people. These are nominations from students and parents who wanted to honour teachers who leave positive footprints in their lives and have helped them in shaping a career.Tristan Kruger&rsquo;s mother, Tarryn, nominated Tristan&rsquo;s grade 2 teacher, Debbie Sorour from St Charles College.&ldquo;Debbie is a phenomenal teacher who truly goes beyond the call of duty! Not only is she the reason our boys flourish academically but the reason they strive to always do their best. The foundation years of students is vital and important, Debbie ensures the boys have a grounded foundation and instills in them the true values they need to accomplish anything their heart desires.&ldquo;Debbie Sorour is definitely an example of what a teacher should be. If there were more Debbies as teachers, we would have countless potential for future leaders for our country,&rdquo; said Tarryn.Mrs Govender nominated Miss Y Umichand from Ridgeview Primary School and describes her as a dedicated teacher.&ldquo;Her selfless sacrifices are what make her shine... She selflessly thinks of her &lsquo;children&rsquo;. As a parent I rest assured knowing my child is in good hands,&rdquo; said Mrs Govender.Michelle Goulden nominated Phillippa Lowe from Cordwalles Prep school and describes her as a teacher that students never forget. &ldquo;Mrs Lowe doesn't judge on ability she gets to know her students as individuals and believes in them. She encourages and builds self confidence. She never gives up. She talks to students like people and takes the time to listen to their worries and fears. She is a phenomenal teacher,&rdquo; said Goulden.Jackie Keevy Muir, who heads the drama department at St John's DSG was also nominated among teachers who should be celebrated today.Maiyuran Kurukkal nominated Mrs. V. Pillay of Raisthorpe Secondary School, and Mr. Gokul of Woodlands Secondary School. &ldquo;They have been the main reason for me choosing my career in Environmental/Geographical studies as they greatly motivated me to choose that career path. They provided me with a thorough understanding of the environment and geography that has led to me completing my BSc in Geography and Hydrology, in addition to studying towards my Honours in Hydrology,&rdquo; said Kurukkal.Mrs Jackie Keevy-Muir, who was also nominated, has nominated Mrs Pariksha Govender of Dunveria Secondary School.&ldquo;She has been a great role model, not only to me but many other students as well. She has been a great motivation for me to continue my tertiary education and I wish to contribute to society as she has done,&rdquo; said Keevy-Muir.Leola Rajah nominated three teachers, Mrs Terri Eayrs, Mrs Kim Gouweloos and Mrs Julie Brown from Epworth School.&ldquo;Mrs Eayrs was a great teacher because she used to give us ice lollies and she was funny, friendly, sweet and happy. She is special to me. I love her laugh.&ldquo;Mrs Gouweloos is full of love and made me happy and she also made school fun and exciting. She gives the best hugs.&ldquo;Mrs Brown is really really funny. She is just like Mrs Eayrs. Her teaching is very good and she teaches me so much and makes me so intelligent. I am now a master reader and very good at maths,&rdquo; said Rajah.A Grade 12 learner from Howick High school, Amy Venter nominated &nbsp;Mrs Rita Likwambe as her phenomenal teacher.&ldquo;Mrs Likwambe is phenomenal in so many ways. She teaches Mathematics and is a most enjoyable person to be taught by. She has taught me for the past two years and has made the subject of Mathematics extremely exciting. She teaches with passion, fun and has a huge commitment to watch her students succeed. &ldquo;Even in the maths' classroom, Mrs Likwambe never fails to teach us lessons that will help us succeed in life and apply school-learnt-skills to reach our goals,&rdquo; said Venter.Rowen Rajah nominated his grade 3 teacher Mrs Gail Du Toit from St Charles College.&ldquo;She lets us do lots of fun stuff at school. She is helpful and caring and made my first year at St Charles special. That&rsquo;s why Mrs D is the best.&ldquo;She is always happy and makes me happy at school with her great smile. And she gave me my pen licence! I am grateful for Mrs D and will miss her next year. Thank you for being such a special teacher with a warm heart and love for all of us,&rdquo; said Rajah.Maureen Hawker nominated Chase Strachan from Pelham Senior Primary School as the best teacher. &ldquo;He is simply the best; he has time and patience for each and every one of his children.&nbsp; As a sport teacher he brings out the very best of the children. He is one amazing man and treats everyone with respect,&rdquo; said Hawker.&nbsp;